this is not the most serious video I've
ever made
but you know this is addressing an issue
that's never gonna go away of vegans
dating non vegans and of the pragmatics
of how you introduce the concept of
veganism to someone who has really never
heard of it before I never thought about
it before I do get a lot of fan mail for
my pragmatic videos in the sense where I
talk about how I actually explain things
to other people in real life and the
family comes from new vegans but you
know really the people who appreciate it
most or people have been vegan for more
than 10 years because a lot of the older
vegans they feel frustrated that they've
been having the same conversation again
and again for 10 years and that's what
they want to break out of right so the
kind of discussions I have here on
YouTube and via patreon and other places
gives them some new angles fresh
approach new concepts to work with and
gives them a chance to break out of what
they've been doing for the last issue so
I'm gonna talk about I'm gonna tell a
short anecdote which is like extracted
from a larger much more hilarious
anecdote about a woman here in China who
picked me up that's the reality she I
didn't pick her up she picked me up she
got my phone number out of me and how I
plan to introduce the concept of
veganism to her and what actually
happened but before that I gotta say you
know it's gonna see this anecdote I am
NOT looking for a Chinese girlfriend I'm
not looking for a Chinese wife it may
happen anyway cuz they're looking for me
but you know I set up a profile on a
dating website here and again there's no
shame in my game but I'm also I'm honest
I'm honest with these other women and
I'm honest with you that like the odds
of my actually having a romantic
connection with anyone over one of these
websites almost zero so the profile
description I wrote myself in Chinese I
sat down I did it really rapidly before
I went to class I sat down and said okay
I'm gonna take this as a writing
composition challenge and I wrote in
Chinese this statement about myself and
of course I knew it would have a few you
know grammatical errors or vocabulary
errors in it
and you know this is like everything
else already but myself but it's not
enticing it's not romantic
it's very blunt I mean it ended in the
most unromantic way possible it ended by
saying like personal integrity matters
you don't lie to me I won't lie to you
what's the ending um and you know I
meant that because with the vast
majority these women may be the first
thing I'm gonna tell them is we can be
friends but this is not gonna be a
romantic relationship there's just no
chance of that and you know some people
are not gonna want to hear it but hey
yeah you don't lie to me I don't love
you as a great great principal that to
try to follow in life um and the rest of
the description like as you can imagine
one of the things I said was I am vegan
but I am NOT Buddhist because here in
China obviously if you say you're vegan
people are gonna assume you're Buddhist
and then I specified I I am a nihilist I
used the Chinese term for historical
nihilism which is an especially loaded
term here in China not gonna explain why
this is a specific school of nihilism if
you like that I guess I promote on this
Jamo promote is the wrong word I guess I
make fun of myself for for using that
term on this channel and I mean the rest
of it you know I mean it was all
business nothing romantic or enticing
about this description you know I care
about politics I care about history
study the history of Asia studied Asian
languages I'm now learning Chinese this
is who I am you don't lie to me I won't
lie to you
so I upload this description of the
dating website and then you know I take
a copy of it to the classroom I actually
wrote it out by hand again for the
language practice writing out all the
characters tell you the handwritten
version to my teacher and said oh hey
look you know I did this as like a
writing challenge you know how many
mistakes they make and you know me and
the teacher laughed about it because it
is it is funny in many different ways
and she went through and you know
corrected a few things so you know
several hours go by I go to class I
study Chinese I do other things and then
I take the corrected version of this and
go
back to my computer to try to make the
corrections to the grammar I've never
heard of this before I've never seen
anything like this before but this
website they have quality control people
who have to read and approve everything
you upload to the website so the photos
have to meet certain standards you know
not too much of this not too much of
that what you write has to read some say
so everything is actually seen by a
human being but the human being subtext
of my profile of course it also said I'm
a foreigner said I'm Canadian you know
this person found it in their heart to
completely rewrite the statement so now
like instead of saying that I'm a
nihilistic atheist it says you know I
believe in the invisible strings of fate
drawing our hearts together in this like
romantic view with this like completely
standard Chinese soap opera rhetoric
that I would never say in my life I
would never say it to someone I was in
love with and I would never say it to a
bunch of straight to the Internet and
it's the exact opposite of everything
fully and you know they had kept a few
keywords from my original statement but
looking at it I mean I know most of you
were all we think oh no it must be a
computer algorithm it must be something
automated but no no no looking at the
use of language um
I absolutely have to believe that it was
a human being guru so I'm just astounded
at this total rewrite that you know
changes you know any the most terrible
thing but it seems like I wrote it it
seems like the so I describe myself as
up with a book but I've got the
corrected text I think okay it's not
that big a deal you know a cut and paste
I put in the corrections that my teacher
gave me and I can restore the
description I made myself and that gives
me an error message because because they
employ the staff of people to correct to
improve
you're a romantic discover yourself it
said no no no you can only change the
text once every 24 hours left with the
mortifying decision do I just delete
this whole profile what do I wait 24
hours try to rewrite the text so that it
says what I actually want to say and
then wait in horror to see if they
rewrite it again to sound like the back
cover of a romance novel the level kid
there's no way I can't believe you know
a computer did the rewrite I mean
there's no point on and why again so
then I went I laughing but I said I'd
laugh at my teacher I said can you
believe this have you ever heard of
anything like this admin and she like
all her friends use these dating whoops
here in China a huge percentage of
population uses these dating websites
whether it's to meet friends or to meet
a husband or wife and and she said no
she had never heard of anything like
that happening before and she agreed it
must be that the the managers of this
website thought oh here's this poor
foreigner and he's really trying to say
something nice and enticing but he know
his ability in the Chinese language just
isn't good enough so we reckon for and
what you know the blunt statement at the
end about like personal integrity you
don't lie to me I don't lie to you you
know that was how I ended it Davey wrote
that to be like I'm looking for someone
with a pure heart and an honest
character who could appreciate me is
like oh I mean I know I know computer
automation can do a lot of things but no
I think I think it takes a devious and
well-intentioned human mind to do that
kind of rewrite all right so looks all
right these are the surreal aspects of
my daily life here in China um a woman
approached me in a public place when I
had no interest in flirting with her and
she started flirting with me and you
know right off the bat I respected her
for doing that I respected you don't you
respect the player II respect the game
but I was sitting there I had all kinds
of troubles on my mind just mostly just
paperwork
do a lot of paperwork here in China you
know paperwork for the bank paperwork
for your job paper just you know a lot
of bureaucracy I've been dealing with
and thinking steps ahead about different
ways I'm gonna cope with things if this
happens I do this if that was a you know
paperwork alone was a big part of the
stress it was under so I'm sitting there
in this public building and this woman
is like she really put in work for more
than 15 minutes I'd say 20 minutes you
know to flirt with me and you know
assets to I just didn't want to hear it
and she accomplished exactly what a
flirtation should accomplish which is
that she took me from an attitude of my
having zero interest in her to my being
interested in her a very good-looking
woman it's not for that reason but you
know I meet a lot of good-looking women
and you know again even though like I
respects I respect that she had the
confidence to walk up on me and and you
know try to get my phone number which
she did in the end I respected that but
still you know I mean I look I just say
I'm not playing hard-to-get
I just actually am hard-to-get and when
she first started talking I just I just
had no interest you know so that
happened and then we're following up by
text message and email afterwards you
know both and so the question is the
question you viewers this will be
slightly more addressing you than the
other ridiculous anecdotes have been
telling how do you actually tell her I'm
vegan and this is such a big part of my
life and here is how I conspired to do
it she was throwing out other date ideas
that were you know meet at a restaurant
meet at a nightclub or a bar or
something and rather than saying to her
directly well look I'm vegan and I don't
drink alcohol
so none of that works for me I said back
to her I didn't open with that so she
she mentions you know let's go to a
restaurant etc and I said back no bring
your bathing suit we'll go swimming
and she could have reacted that in any
way whatsoever but my theory was there
was a very good chance she just be kind
of shocked she'd be it's just such a
weird idea when I should mention her age
I would guess she's like 27 fully grown
woman I mean you know she could be 25
but she could be 29 and a half - I would
guess she was 27 so you know for two
fully grown adults on a first date to go
swimming it is a bit weird so it's I was
expecting she might say you know what a
crazy idea why why would you suggest
that and then my reply was gonna be well
look I'm vegan I don't eat meat I don't
drink alcohol and the reality is most of
the things people do when they go in on
dates
involve meat and alcohol and hanging out
in places that are all about meat and
alcohol so you know I'm always trying to
come up with creative ideas I'm always
trying to do so you know whether it's
going hiking or going kayaking or you
know something else you know so why
would I approach that why would I make
that the first time I mentioned being
vegan because you know it's it's really
positive it's really saying to somebody
um this is an aspect of my life that
shapes all the other things I do in
profound and indirect ways you know you
may think veganism is just a diet choice
and then otherwise I live my life
exactly the same as everybody else but
no in a subtle way this is communicating
to you right off the bat the fact that I
don't eat meat I don't drink alcohol etc
it actually does positively motivate me
to go to the gym go swimming go hiking
do other types of activities in my
romantic life in my personal life it
shapes and influences every other part
of my life and I think that's a really
positive way to introduce the idea at
the beginning where it's just it's just
practically coming up and how you shape
the date at some point whether it's the
first date the second date or what have
you at some point from my perspective
you have to communicate the the sad idea
that look if you're gonna fall in love
with me
then you're gonna have to try being
vegan too
and you know if you don't try then
falling in love with me is gonna be a
waste your time we both cut move along
you know yeah I think for me that's
that's something I'm gonna share at some
point cuz there's no way I would be in a
relationship for any significant length
of time with someone who was not vegan
but that's not what I want to say first
right this is somebody who may have
never heard of the idea of veganism
before or here in China more likely it's
probably something they associate with
their grandparents with something very
unfashionable and old-fashioned which in
some ways it is it's brand-new and it's
ancient all at the same time anyway look
guys you know the rest of the story of
what happened with her I'm gonna try to
work it out I'm gonna try to come up
with an excuse to tell the whole
hilarious story in a podcast on patreon
but uh you know uploading for me in
China is really hard here so the days of
my doing 40-minute and one our videos
are over I've got to keep my videos
short
whereas my podcasts are long maybe
that's a much-needed discipline that's
uh my internet connectivity here isn't
forcing on me but hit me up on patreon
wherever you are those who you think my
laughter is insincere it's not at the
top of my page on patreon you know it
lists the different things the channel
is for and that it does and one of them
is self parody I do laugh at myself a
lot I do find my own life absurd and
ridiculous and whether it's writing that
profile on the dating website or what
happened with this woman who you know as
I say she picked me up she got my phone
number out of me when I wasn't really
inclined to give it to her all the
absurd contradictions that surround my
being why I'm even in China what I'm
trying to accomplish in China what
happens next in my life I do laugh at it
and you know that is a difference
between me and some of the other vegans
here on YouTube when you lose that
capacity to laugh at yourself
now you know the next step maybe is
paranoia defensiveness you know and all
these other terrible traits that we've
seen play out at the end of the day I
mean you know veganism is like the
world's most morose boycott movement but
within you know the horror that we all
live with every day of being you know we
see what other people don't see
we see the suffering of the animals we
see the terrible consequences for what's
become so normal that it's invisible and
ignored but everyone else around us or
witnesses to you know the unspeakable
unforgivable immoral
reality that underpins daily life for 99
percent of humanity in the here and now
and we say we refuse to be a part of it
and yet on a daily basis we are a part
of it we see it we hear it we smell it
you know we walk past it the person
sitting next to us at the same table you
know in a cafeteria is eating it right
in front of us you know we live immersed
in and surrounded by everything we
object to so stridently we live with
that horror that sort of morose
Perpetual heartbreak and we all struggle
with these questions of effective
activism and how we can actually do
something positive about it but in the
midst of all that man you've got to keep
your ability to laugh yourself if you
ever lose your ability to laugh to
yourself vegan cheetah is gonna be
laughing for you